---
slug: 2020-04-22-updates-april-2020
title: Updates (April 2020)
authors: eric
date: 2020-04-22
---

New blog == new content == more things to enjoy. So what’s new this month for Team Bliss?

# General

## New rules regarding Telegram

As the projects of Team Bliss grow, so does the community surrounding it. And while we are open and accepting to each and every member of our quickly burgeoning community, some malicious individuals have decided to exploit that aspect.

In the last couple of weeks, we have seen a lot of people not follow the rules and instructions posted on our website and Telegram groups. In particular, we have seen a sharp uptick on nasty behavior toward admins and developers, where users believe they are entitled to something from our team.

Our stance on this is extremely clear – Team Bliss will not cater to rude people. If you are kicked or banned from our channel, you best believe you have been rude to us, a team member, or a member of our community at some point. Bans will not be reversed if the reasoning is just, so do not ask. Any attempts to circumvent the ban using alternate accounts will be reported to Telegram and all alternate accounts will promptly be banned as well.

Please be nice and don’t be rude. Thanks!

## Looking for server donations

Team Bliss is also on the lookout for server donations! If you or the organization you work with have some spare slots on your servers, please contact us to get things rolling. We may even display your organization’s sponsor logos as a show of gratitude! 😀

In particular, we are looking for build servers to set up weekly/nightly builds for our device roster and some infrastructure servers to help team processes, such as documentation and bug tracking. If you believe your servers are capable, please don’t hesitate to reach out to us!

[You can email us here.][server-donation-email] Please include the phrase “Server Donation” in the subject so we can quickly respond!

[server-donation-email]: mailto:contact@blissroms.com

# BlissRoms

## New devices

We have a lot of new devices joining our team roster this month! The additions are as follows (all tags are Telegram handles):

- Redmi Note 7 Pro (violet) – maintained by @thatsaftab
- Mi 8 Lite (platina) – maintained by @hanifardhani
- Xiaomi Mi 9 SE (grus) – maintained by @pivcer
- Asus Max Pro M2 (X01BD) – maintained by @Nitesh_121
- Realme 5 Pro (RMX1971) – maintained by @Orgasmtron

If your device is on this list please don’t forget to thank your maintainer as you grab your build of BlissRoms!

## POCO X2 Developer Program

We’d like to give thanks to [POCO for sending their POCO X2][poco-x2-xda-news] to our developer Jack (@jackeagle). Follow [POCO’s Instagram account][poco-instagram] and [Twitter account][poco-twitter] for more information about the POCO X2!

[poco-x2-xda-news]: https://www.xda-developers.com/poco-x2-custom-rom-kernel-developer-program/
[poco-instagram]: https://www.instagram.com/indiapoco/
[poco-twitter]: https://twitter.com/IndiaPOCO

## ROM changes

- Added the Trebuchet Launcher. All new builds will use Trebuchet going forward.
- Removed Lawnchair Launcher.
- Added icon pack support to Trebuchet Launcher.
- Double tap to sleep has been added
- Recents swipe with gesture have been added
- Added 6 new clocks in styles and wallpapers (thanks to the Bootleggers team!)
    - Divided Lines
    - SFUNY
    - MMNL Box
    - MMNL Minimal
    - Orona
    - Nerves Clock
- Clocks have resizable font and different styles (on some clocks only)
- Fix for themes section crashing has been added (please submit bug reports if you encounter any!)

We would like to express our thanks for everyone that helped add these features and improvements to BlissRoms, including the Bootleggers team for the clock additions!

Thanks for tuning into this month’s worth of updates. I’ll sign off here and hand it over to [Jon with his Bliss OS updates on “A State of Bliss” posts, as is tradition][a-state-of-bliss-post]. See you on the next update post!

[a-state-of-bliss-post]: {% post_url 2020/2020-04-22-a-state-of-bliss-april-2020 %}
